During code refactoring or implementation of new features in software,
errors often occur in existing parts. This may have a serious impact on
the reliability of the system, thus jeopardizing user's confidence for
the system. Automatic testing is utilized to verify the functionality of
software in order to detect bugs and errors before they end up in a
production environment.\\

The commissioner body of this project, GOLI, is a startup company
developing a web application for production planning. Starting new web
application companies often means rapid product development in order to
create the product itself, while maintenance levels are low and the
quality of the application is still easy to assure by manual testing. As
the application and the number of users grows, maintenance and bug
fixing becomes an increasing part of the development. The size of the
application might make it implausible to test in a satisfying way by
manual testing.\\

Due to requirements from customers, GOLI wishes to extend the code base
of the web application to include new features for handling staff
manning. The current system uses automatic testing to some extent, but
these tests are cumbersome to write and takes long time to run. The
purpose of the thesis is to analyze how this application can begin using
tests in a good way whilst the application is still quite small. The
goal is to determine a solid way of implementing new features and bug
fixes in order for the product to be able to grow effortlessly.\\
